Here is a summary of 20 key news stories from VNExpress today in simple English (A1 level):

1. A businesswoman appeals in court – A Vietnamese businesswoman is in court to appeal her sentence.


2. New salary rules for military students – Vietnam's Ministry of Defense suggests higher social insurance payments for military students.


3. Big exhibition center under construction – A large exhibition center in Hanoi is being built and will finish in July 2025.


4. Park renovation in Hanoi – Ly Thai To Park near Hoan Kiem Lake will be renovated from April to October.


5. Search for missing plane MH370 – The search for missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 faces big problems.


6. New battery technology – Scientists work on a new type of battery that does not need lithium.


7. War in Sudan – The government of Sudan takes back important buildings in the capital.


8. Ho Chi Minh City stops job support – The city will stop giving extra money to workers who lose jobs.


9. Former chairman of FLC in court – A former business leader in Vietnam is on trial again.


10. War crimes in Ukraine – Reports say there are war crimes in Ukraine.


11. Big fraud case in Vietnam – A police captain is involved in a smuggling case worth over 200 billion VND.


12. Airport changes rules for taxis – Tan Son Nhat Airport in Ho Chi Minh City will stop tech taxis from picking up passengers upstairs.


13. New rule for monkeypox – People with monkeypox must stay home for 21 days.


14. Fake luxury car scam – A man tricked a rich person by selling a fake Rolls-Royce.


15. Airlines ban power banks – Two airlines in Vietnam ban passengers from using power banks on flights.


16. Warplane crash in Russia – A Russian fighter jet had to land without wheels.


17. Violence in Vietnam – A couple attacked a delivery man in Binh Duong.


18. Big robbery in Vietnam – Thieves stole $2 million and ran away for two weeks before police caught them.


19. New school exam dates – The 2025 high school graduation exam will be in June.


20. Sports news – Portugal will play against Germany in a big football match in June.



Let me know if you need more details!

