Here are 20 key news stories from VnExpress today, summarized in simple English (A1 level):

1. More Flights for Holiday – Airlines in Vietnam will add 20% more flights for the April 30 - May 1 holiday.


2. Fewer Provinces in Vietnam – The government may reduce the number of provinces by more than half.


3. End of Urban Government Model – A special city government system in Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Da Nang, and Hai Phong may stop.


4. Young People Should Be Confident – The General Secretary says young Vietnamese should be confident and proud of their culture.


5. Military Students’ Salaries to Increase – The Ministry of Defense proposes higher social insurance payments for military students.


6. Flower Garden in Hanoi to Change – A famous garden near Ly Thai To statue will be renovated, but old trees will stay.


7. No More Extra Money for Some Workers – Ho Chi Minh City may stop extra payments for officials who lose their jobs.


8. Prime Minister Encourages Youth – The Prime Minister says all young people with skills will get a chance to use them.


9. Malaysia Behind Vietnam in Football – Malaysia won only 2-0 against Nepal, so Vietnam is ahead in the Asian Cup qualification.


10. Land Taken for Highway – Ho Chi Minh City will take 206 hectares of land to build a highway to Tay Ninh.


11. Norwegian Football Star Scores – Erling Haaland scored for Norway to win 4-2 against Israel.


12. Portuguese Football Star Misses Penalty but Wins – Cristiano Ronaldo missed a penalty, but Portugal still won.


13. Vietnam's Top Female Engineering Student – A woman from Nam Dinh became the best student at a transport university.


14. Lottery Winner Gets Prize After Court Case – A woman won a lawsuit and received 2 billion VND for a torn lottery ticket.


15. Singapore Prime Minister Visits Vietnam – Singapore’s leader arrived in Hanoi for an official visit.


16. Indonesia’s Football Team Has Many Dutch Players – The Bahrain coach was surprised by the number of Indonesian players from Europe.


17. Trump Talks About Ukraine War – Donald Trump said there are talks about new borders for Ukraine.


18. More Tourism Names Will Stay – Famous city names like Da Lat and Nha Trang will not change.


19. Vietnam Wants to Lower Car Import Tax – The Ministry of Finance may cut taxes for imported cars.


20. Highway System Will Expand – Vietnam wants to increase lanes on the North-South highway.



Would you like more details on any of these stories?

